Maxwell Greene
8/29/18 - Data Science HW1


1a. Data science applies the same methods used and developed in the disciplines of computer science, mathematics and statistics. However, these methods are used in a different way to answer slightly different questions. That is, data science is concerned with the significance of the answers in the real world, rather than the answer itself or its accuracy.


1b. Marketing - Data science can extract logged user information to assess the success of marketing campaigns. Methods such as A/B testing can help to find the most effective advertisement and greatly increase sales.
Natural Sciences - Data science can be used to find answers in data collected from a classic scientific laboratory such as protein structure, population densities, etc. While statistics is more useful for smaller data sets, especially with fewer variables, data science is useful for revealing and answering alternative research questions from the data.


1c. Argument For - Data science is a rahashing of traditional methods in order to apply different ideas and answer different questions. The process treats the data as a means to a discovery in the real world, rather than as an end in itself.


1d. Hypothesis-driven science asks questions about the real world and aims to gather specific data on the topic. Data-driven science uses the large amounts of available data and asks what questions can be answered using what is available.


1e. “Given available baseball statistics, can we build a model to predict the success of any baseball player, or which players would be the most successful drafts to a team?”
“Given available weather and radar statistics, how far into the future can we predict weather conditions in a specific area?”


1f. Data: Titanic population and survival statistics.
This data set lists characteristics of the individuals on the titanic and, most interestingly, whether or not they have survived the crash.
“What variables and values were characteristic of individuals who survived the crash?”
“Descriptive stats of which characteristics were found in each social class?”
“What do the survival statistics of individuals tell us about the social process of a crash?”
(e.g. males may have had a lower survival rate because of “women and children first”)


1g.”Structured vs. Unstructured” - Structured data is organized in a simple way. Each column, if it is in a matrix, represents a single variable. Unstructured data can be stored in a more abstract way such as object-oriented data. However, the first step in organizing unstructured data is ro make it into a structured list or matrix.
“Quantitative vs. Categorical” - Quantitative data is measured on a continuum such as integers or floats. Examples include age, weight, population, electricity usage, income, etc. Categorical includes labels to describe the properties of each object. Examples include small, medium, large, true/false, undergraduate/graduate, etc.
“Big Data vs. Little Data” - Big data is the large amount of data that has been collected through internet content, sensors, etc. Big data is not necessarily collected with a problem or solution in mind, but can certainly be analyzed to answer a question. Little data, on the other hand, is collected with an intent to address a problem. One major example is scientific data.


1h. Classification: The process of “classifying” the collected data into a model with the intent of fitting new data into these classifications. For example, if given SAT and GPA a classification model would predict whether or not the individual would be accepted into a certain grad school.


1i. Regression: Building a model that will predict a value of new data based on a history of past data. For example, if given GPA a regression would predict the value of the SAT score based on the trends of other students.


1j. Kaggle is a site that provides real data sets to data scientists. Kaggle competitions are based on the open data sets, given a question to answer about the data and sometimes with a reward.


2.“U.S. Hourly Precipitation Data” - Similar to weather radar predictions, this data could be used to predict the amount of precipitation in the future based on the massive amount of past data patterns. This could be especially useful for farmers and agriculturists. 
“Crimes - 2001 to present” - If it is possible to classify crime activity into reasonable patterns, this data set could be used to predict crimes in the future. For example, if certain stores are robbed around a particular time of year, it may be likely to happen again.
“Hospital Charge Data” - The vast set of healthcare charges and demographics of the customers could certainly be used to evaluate the effectiveness of a new government healthcare system.
“Feed Grains Database” - This data set contains the success and conditions of feed grain across the U.S.. Agriculturists can certainly use this data and classification techniques to determine which conditions give the best crop yield each year. This has obvious economical and social benefits. 


3. I would perform a blind taste test and run 10 trials for each individual. That is, participants have two cups in front of them without labels, one with coke and one with Dr. Pepper and they must report which they preferred each trial. After collecting the data, the soda that was preferred most often will be the one that my friends like the most. If the preference numbers are close, a statistical analysis can be run to determine if one was significantly preferred over the other.