Maxwell Greene
9/11/18 - Data Science HW3


1a. The function concatenates or combines the elements provided as arguments into a single vector. These elements are “coerced” into a common type.
1b. ***
1c.        > v <- c(1,2,3,4)
        > v2 <- c(v,5,6,7)
1d. getwd() returns a string of the current working directory.
1e. ls() returns a vector containing strings of the names of variables in the current workspace
1f. The working directory is the folder location where all current operating files and functions are stored, as well as where R files from the global environment will be stored on exit of R.
1g. getwd()
1h.         list.files() returns a string vector containing the names of files in the working directory.
        dir.create() creates a folder with specified name “path” in the current wd.
        file.create() creates a file of specified type called “filename” in the current working directory.
        file.info() returns information about the file located at specified “path” including size and various timestamps.
        file.rename() changes the name of file specified by first argument to the name specified by the second argument.
        file.copy() moves a file from the first argument to the second argument where arguments are file types.


2a. Git is a version control system that manages and tracks changes in files. For software developers and collaborators, Git it extremely useful for managing version, collaborating and general file organization. 
2b. GitHub is a an online and application-based client for Git, which provides a graphical user interface for Git commands and visualization. Github also provides dedicated online servers, sharing tools, raw coding files with hyperlink access for access to text from any repositories.
2c. If a data scientist wishes to collaborate with others, Git and GitHub are extremely useful for managing and understanding changes and issues with the code, especially when collaborating on the same file. Even if the file is not being edited live, such as with Atom’s tools, Git helps to organize these file changes and even provide branching for major edits or experimental changes.