Maxwell Greene
9/2/18 - Data Science HW2


2. Rectangular - Fuel efficiency data by car model including make, model, engine type, transmission, city mpg, highway mpg, etc.
Continuous - City mpg, highway mpg, engine displacement (could be considered categorical, but technically continuous)
Discrete - Maximum ethanol %, Model year
Categorical - Car model, car make, number of cylinders, aspiration type, number of gears, model type index.
Binary - Lockup Torque converter (overdrive), automatic or manual
Ordinal - Fuel efficiency ranking (if it were in the data set)


3. A taxonomy of data types is important for several reasons. Namely, so that the data can be organized automatically and handled by the software to improve computational performance. Data scientists can use the taxonomy to determine which predictive model or graphical representation to use.


4. True. “diamonds” is a data.frame with 53940 objects of 10 variables each.


5. True. “diamonds” is organized into explicit variable columns for each object.


6. 53940 objects of 10 variables each.


7. Carat: Continuous
Cut: Categorical
Color: Categorical
Clarity: Categorical
Depth: Continuous
Table: Discrete?
Price: Discrete
X,Y,Z: Continuous


8. A bar plot and a histogram look very similar, but they are used to display different types of data. Specifically, bar plots are used to display the number of objects in each of a categorical variable in a data set and a histogram is used to visualize a single continuous variable by displaying the number of objects in different ranges of the variable. 


9. ggplot(data=mpg) + geom_bar(mapping = aes(x=class)) 
This command gives a bar plot displaying the count of the number of objects in each of the instances of the categorical “class” variable in the mpg car data set.


10. ggplot(data=mpg) + geom_histogram(mapping = aes(x = displ), binwidth=0.4)
This command gives a histogram displaying the count of the number of objects in each increment of .5L total cylinder displacement in the mpg car data set.


11. The summary(mpg) command gives a brief description of each individual variable in the data.frame mpg. Continuous variables are displayed with descriptive statistics and categorical variables are displayed with length, class and mode.